Hey, we're live. Hey. Welcome, YouTube and everybody watching the live stream. So welcome,
Michael.
Hey, Brian.
Hey. Before we get started, actually, let's just get started. Thanks to everybody for
showing up and we'll jump in. Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news
and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 325 recorded February 28th, the
last day of February in 2023. I am Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And before we jump in, I want to thank everybody on the, that shows up for the live stream.
If you haven't shown up for the live stream before, it's a lot of fun. People can stop
and ask questions and chat and everything. And it's a good way to say hi. and we
We enjoy having you here or watch it afterwards
if this is a bad time for you.
Also wanna thank Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub
for sponsoring this episode.
They've been an excellent sponsor of the show
and they've also agreed to have us like
be able to play with the sponsor spots
and do some AI readings.
So this one's gonna be a fun one, this one.
So I'm excited about it.
- I am too, it's gonna be fun.
- So why don't you kick us off with our first topic today?
All right, let's jump right in.
You like solid code.
So how about some codesolid.com?
Has nothing to do with solid code,
but it's still interesting and it does have to do with code.
This one is something called Parquet and Arrow.
Have you heard of Apache Arrow
or the Parquet file format, Brian?
- I don't, I've heard of Arrow,
but I don't think I've heard of Parquet.
- So when people do a lot of data science,
you'll see them do things like open up Jupyter Notebooks
and import pandas.
And then from pandas, they'll say load CSV.
Well, if you could think of a whole bunch
of different file formats and how fast and efficient
they might be stored on disk in red,
how do you think CSVs might turn out?
Pretty slow, pretty large, and so on.
And Arrow through PyArrow has some really interesting
in-memory structures that are a little more efficient
than pandas, as well as it has access to this parquet format.
So does pandas through an add-on,
but you'll see that it's still faster using PyArrow.
So basically, that's what this article
that I found is about.
It highlights how these things compare,
and it basically asks the questions like,
can we use pandas data frames and arrow tables together?
Like if I have a pandas data frame,
but I wanna then switch it into PyArrow
for better performance at some point for some analysis,
can I do that?
Or if I start with PyArrow,
could I then turn it into a data frame
and hand it off to Seaborn
or some other thing that expects a pandas data frame?
Answer is yes.
Short version there.
Are they better?
In which ways are they better?
Which way are they worse?
And then the bulk of the analysis here is like,
Okay, we could save our data, read and write our data
from a bunch of different file formats,
Parquet, but also things like Feather,
Oryx, CSV and others, even Excel.
What should we maybe consider using?
Okay, so installing it is just pip install,
PyArrow, super easy, same type of story.
If you want to use it with Pandas,
so I've got some Pandas data, DataFrame,
and then I want to then convert it over, that's super easy.
So you can use,
go to PyArrow and you say PyArrow.table,
say from pandas and give it a pandas data frame
and then boom, you've got it in PyArrow format.
- Okay.
- One of the things that's interesting is with pandas
is a real nice like wrangling exploration style of data.
Okay.
So I can go and I can just show the data frame
and it'll tell me like there are 14 columns
and this example, 6,433 rows
and it'll list off the headers and then the column data.
If I do the same thing in PyArrow, I just get,
it's kind of human readable.
You just get like a dump of junk basically.
It's not real great.
So that aspect, certainly using pandas
is nice for this kind of exploration.
Another thing about PyArrow is the data is immutable.
So you can't say, oh, every time that this thing appears,
actually replace it with this canonical version.
You know, if you get like a Y, lowercase yes,
and capital yes, you wanna make them all just lowercase yes,
or just the Y, like you gotta make a copy
instead of change it in place.
So that's one of the reasons you might stick with pandas,
which is pretty interesting.
But you can do a lot of really interesting parsing
and performance stuff that you would do with,
like you would do with pandas.
But if your goal is performance
and performance measured in different ways,
how much memory does it take up in computer RAM?
How much disk space type of memory does it take up?
How fast is it to read and write from those?
It's pretty much always better to go with PyArrow.
So for example, if I take those same sets of data,
those two sets of data from--
I think this is the New York City taxi data,
some subset of that, really common data set.
It's-- quick, digit grouping.
It's a little over 3 megs of memory for the data frame,
and it's just under 100--
sorry, 3 megs.
Yeah, I don't know if I said 300.
3 megs of data for pandas, whereas it's
just under 1 meg for PyArrow.
So that's three times smaller, which is pretty interesting
there.
The other one is if you do mathy things on it,
like if you've got tables of numbers,
you're really likely to talk about things
like the max or the mean or the average and so on.
Now, if you do that to pandas and you do it to pyro,
You'll see it's about eight times faster to do math
with PyArrow than it is to do it with Pandas.
That's pretty cool, right?
- Yeah, the syntax is a little grosser, but yeah.
- The syntax is a little grosser.
I will show you a way to get to this in a moment
that is less gross, I believe.
- Okay. - Okay.
And then Alvaro out there does say,
If you want fast data frames,
Polars plus Parquet is the way to go.
He's reading, skating to where the puck is gonna be, indeed.
And Kim says, "Presumably the immutability
"plays a large part in the performance."
I suppose so.
- Yeah.
- And then also some feedback of real-time analytics here.
Alvaro says, "I got a broken script from a colleague.
"I rewrote it in Pandas,
"and it took about two hours of process
In Polars, it took three minutes.
So that's a non-trivial sort of bonus there.
All right, let me go over the file formats.
And I'll just really quickly--
I think we've talked about Polars.
I'll just reintroduce it really quick.
So if we go and look at the different file formats,
we could use Parquet.
So we could say 2 Parquet with PyArrow.
And you get it out.
And these numbers are all kind of like insane.
Four milliseconds versus reading it with two milliseconds.
If you use the fast parquet,
which is the thing that allows data frames to do it,
it's 14 milliseconds,
which is a little over three times slower,
but it's still really, really fast, right?
There's feather, which is the fastest
of all the file formats with a two millisecond save time,
which is blazing.
There's Orc.
I have no idea what Orc is.
It's a little bit faster.
Or if you want to show that you're taking lots of time
and doing lots of processing,
doing lots of data science-y things,
you could always do Excel,
which takes about a second almost.
I mean, on a larger dataset,
it might take a lot longer, right?
You're like, oh, I'm busy, I can't work.
I'm getting a coffee 'cause I'm saving.
- Well, I mean, there's some people
that really have to export it to Excel
so that other people can make mistakes later.
- Yes, exactly, 'cause life is better when it's all go-tos.
Yeah.
But no, you're right.
If the goal is to deliver an Excel file, then obviously.
But this is more like considering
what's a good intermediate just storage format.
And then CSV is actually not that slow.
It's still slower, but it's only 30 milliseconds.
But the other part that's worth thinking about,
remember, this is only 6,400 rows.
The parquet format is 191K.
The Pandas one is almost 100K more, which is interesting.
The Feather is almost half a meg.
Orac is three quarters of a meg.
Excel is half a meg.
CSV is a meg, right?
So a meg, that's almost five times file size increase.
So if you're storing tons of data
and it's five gigs versus 50 gigs,
you know, you maybe wanna think about
storing it in a different format.
Plus you read and write it faster, right?
So these are all pretty interesting.
And Polars, Polar.rs is the lightning fast data frame
built in Rust and Python.
This is built on top of PyArrow.
I had a whole,
built on top of Apache Arrow.
I had a whole talk Python episode on it.
I'm pretty sure I'd talked about Polars before
on here as well,
but it's got like a really cool sort of fluent
programming style and under the covers,
it's using PyArrow as well.
So pretty neat.
Yeah, so if you're really looking to say like,
I just wanna go all in on this,
as Avaro pointed out, I think it was Avaro,
that Polars is, yeah, that Polars is pretty cool.
- Okay, neat.
- And Henry out there, real time feedback is,
Pandas is fully supporting PyArrow for all data types
in the upcoming 1.5 and 2.0 releases.
There was just a blog post on it
on the Data Pythonista blog.
It's not clear if they're switching to it.
I believe it's NumPy at the moment as the core,
but it's, could be supporting it, which is awesome.
Yeah, thanks Henry for that live update there.
- Yeah, well then I'll also,
I said, but it did say basically starting
to get native PyOS speed with pandas
by just selecting the backend in the new pandas version.
So.
- Indeed.
Awesome, yeah, yeah, very, very cool.
So lots of options here, but I think a takeaway
that it's kind of worth paying attention to here
is choosing maybe Parquet as a file format,
regardless of whether you're using Pandas
or PyArrow or whatever, right?
'Cause I think the default is read and write CSV.
And if your CSV files are ginormous,
that might be something you wanna not do.
Yeah. - Okay.
- All right, over to you.
- Well, you said have ever heard of Parquet,
And before we get to the next topic,
I was thinking like, is it butter or is it parquet?
It's a thing from when we were kids, but.
- That's right, margarine.
Yum.
- Mm, parquet.
Had a little tub that talked, it was neat.
- Oh, that's right, it did, it had a little mouth, yeah.
- Yeah.
I wanna talk about FastAPI a bit.
So this topic, FastAPI filter,
comes from us from Arthur Rio.
And Arthur, actually, it's his library.
I'm going to pop over to the documentation quickly.
But what it is, it's a query string filters for API endpoints
to and so you can show them in Swagger and use them in stuff for cool things.
So I'll pop over to the documentation.
So it says query string filters that supports backends, SQLAlchemy and more.
And it's a really cool thing.
string filters that supports backends SQLAlchemy and Mongo
engine. So that's nice. But let's say, well, we'll get to
the what the filters look like later. But in the swagger
interface, this is pretty neat. So let's say you're grabbing the
users. And you want to filter them by like the name, you can
do to query in the name or the age less than or age greater
than or equal. These pretty nice. There's a so it says the
the philosophy of FastAPI filters to be very declarative.
You define fields that you want to be able to filter on
as well as the type of operator
and then tie your filters to a specific model.
It's pretty easy to set up.
The syntax is pretty, well, we'll let you look at it,
but it's not that bad to set up the filters.
- Yeah, a lot of Pydantic models,
as you might expect it being FastAPI.
- Yeah.
So you plug in these filters,
But then you get things like the built-in ones
are like not equal, greater than,
greater than or equal in, those sorts of things.
But you can do some pretty complex query strings then,
like, oh, there's some good examples down here.
So like the users, but order by descending name
or order by ascending ID,
there's like plus and minus for ascending
and you can have order by,
and you can filter by like the name, custom orders,
and actually putting some filters right in your API string
is kind of an interesting idea.
I don't know if it's a good idea or a bad idea,
but it's interesting.
- Yeah, this is a real interesting philosophy
of how do I access the data in my database as an API?
And I would say there's sort of two really common ways
and then there's a lot of abuse of what APIs look like
and what you should do, you know,
just remote procedure calls and all sorts of randomness.
But the philosophy is I've got data in a database
and I wanna expose it over an API.
Do I go and write a bunch of different functions
in FastAPI in this example, where I decide,
here's a way where you can find the recent users
and you can then possibly take some kind of parameter
about a sort or maybe how recent of the users
do you wanna be, but you're writing the code
that decides here's the database query
and it's generally focused on recent users, right?
That's one way to do APIs.
The other is I kinda wanna take my database
and just make it queryable over the internet, right?
And this is, with the right restrictions,
it's not necessarily a security vulnerability,
but it's just pushing all of the thinking
about what the API is to the client side, right?
So if I'm doing Vue.js, it's like,
well, we'll wrap this onto our database,
and you ask it any question you can imagine,
as if you had a direct query line to the database, right?
So that's why you would do maybe the age greater than,
or you could do some of those filters where you say,
give me all the users where the created date
is less than such and such or greater than such.
That would basically be like the new users, right?
But it's up to the client to kind of know the data schema
and talk to it.
And this is that latter style.
If you like that, awesome.
You can expose a relational database over SQLAlchemy
or MongoDB through Mongo engine, and it looks pretty cool.
- My thoughts on where I mean,
I'm not using this in production,
but my thoughts on where I might use this,
even disregarding like one of the Brandon's concerns,
Brandon Brainer says,
exposing my API field names makes me nervous.
But there's a part of your, oops,
part of your development
where you're not quite sure what queries you want.
So custom writing them,
maybe you're not ready to do that
or it'll be a lot of back and forth.
So a great, I think a great place to be for this would be
when you're working with, you've got your front end
and your backend code, your API code,
and you're trying to figure out
what sort of searches you want,
and you can use something like this
to have it right be in the actual API query.
And then once you figure out all the stuff you need,
then you could go back if you want to
and hard code different API endpoints
with similar stuff, maybe, I don't know.
- Yeah, yeah, and not everything's built the same, right?
Kim out there points out that many of the APIs
that he uses or builds are for in-house use only.
- Yeah. - Right?
And so it's just like,
instead of coming up very, very focused API endpoints,
it's like, well, kind of just leave it open
and people can use this service to access the data
in a somewhat safe way, like a restricted way.
So it's, what are you building?
Like, are you putting it just on the open internet
or are you putting it, you know, inside?
- That's very true.
Yeah, like I've got a bunch of projects I'm working on that are internal and like,
I, I, who cares if somebody knows what my data names are and stuff.
So,
right.
Well, and what is in it?
Are you storing social security numbers and addresses or are you still storing
a voltage levels for RF devices?
Right.
Exactly.
No, the voltage levels have leaked.
Oh no.
Right.
I mean, it might be awesome.
yeah, I mean the end, like the secretive, we don't want it to get
out in the public, but it's not something
that internal users are gonna do anything with.
So, yeah. - Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- Cool. - Cool, well, yeah,
that's really a nice one.
So, Brian, sponsor this week?
- Yeah, Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
But if you remember last week, we did an ad
where we asked an AI to come up with the ad text for us.
in like an official sort of official sounding way.
- Yeah, yep.
So this week you pushed it through the filter
and said to try to come up with the wording
in a hipster voice, right?
So here we go with a hipster style.
I'll try.
Yo Python Bytes fam, this segment is brought to you
by the sickest program out there for startup founders,
Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub.
If you're a boss at running a startup,
you're gonna wanna listen up
because this is the deal of a lifetime.
Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub is your ticket
to scaling efficiently and preserving your runway
all while keeping your cool factor intact.
With over six figures worth of benefits,
the program is serious next level.
You'll get 150K in Azure credits,
the richest cloud credit offering on the market,
access to the OpenAI APIs
and the new Azure OpenAI service,
where you can infuse some serious generative AI
into your apps.
And a one-on-one technical advisor from the Microsoft squad
who will help you with your technical stack
and architectural plans.
This program is open to all,
whether you're just getting started or really,
or already killing it.
And the best part, there's no funding requirement.
All it takes is five minutes to apply
and you'll be reaping the benefits in no time.
check it out and sign up for Microsoft for Startup
Founders Hub at pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022.
Peace out and keep listening.
- It's insane the power of these AIs these days.
And you know, if you wanna get access to OpenAI
and Azure and GitHub and all those things,
well, sign up.
A lot of people seem to be liking that program,
so it's cool they're supporting us.
- Yeah, also cool that they're letting us play with the ad.
- Yes, with their own tools indeed.
Okay, what I got next, Brian,
is stuff to take your code to the next level, bro.
12, but this sounds pretty interesting,
12 Python decorators to take your code to the next level.
- Nice. - Decorators are awesome.
And they're kind of like a little bit of magic Python dust
you can sprinkle onto a method and make things happen, right?
Now, about half of these are homegrown.
Half of those I'd recommend.
And then a bunch of them are also,
the other half is maybe the built-in ones
that come from various places.
So I'll just go through the list of 12
and you tell me what you think.
The first one that they started off with in this article
doesn't thrill me.
It says, "Hey, I can wrap this function
"with this thing called logger
"and it'll tell me when it starts and stops."
Like, yeah, no thanks, that doesn't seem interesting.
But the next one, especially if you're already focused
on decorators and psyched about that,
is the FuncTools wraps, right?
- Because if you're gonna--
- Definitely, you gotta use it.
- Yeah, it's basically required.
If you create a decorator,
and they show you how to do that on the screen here,
and you try to interact with the function that is decorated,
well, you're gonna get funky results.
Like, what is the function's name?
Well, it's the name of the decorator, not the actual thing.
What if it's arguments?
It's star, star, star, KWRs.
What is documentation?
Whatever the name, the documentation of the decorators,
and all that.
So with wraps, you can wrap it around,
and it'll actually kind of pass through that information,
which is pretty cool.
So if you're gonna do decorators wrapped,
that's kind of a meta decorator here.
Another one I think is really cool,
and not for all use cases, not really great on the web
because of the scale out across process story
that often happens in deployment.
But if you're doing data sciencey things
or a bunch of repetitive processing,
the LRU cache is like magic
unless you are really memory constrained or something.
- Yeah, love LRU cache.
- Yeah, you just put it on a function
and you say @LRU cache and you can even give it a max size.
And it just says, as long as given a fixed input,
you'll get the same output every time.
Then you can put the LRU cache on it.
The second time you call it the same arguments,
it just goes, you know what?
I know the answer, here you go.
And it's an incredibly easy way to speed up stuff
that takes like numbers and like well-known things
that are not objects, but it can be tested.
Like, yeah, these are the same values.
- And if you don't care about the max size,
you can just use the decorator cache.
Now you don't need to have the LRU part.
- No, nice.
Great addition.
Next up we have @repeat.
Suppose for some reason I want to call a function
multiple times.
Like if I want to try to say,
what if I call this a bunch of times just for say,
load testing or I want to just, you know,
kind of enduring development.
I can't see this being used in any realistic way,
but you can just say, this is one that they built.
You just wrap it and say, repeat this n number of times.
That might be useful.
- Yeah.
- Time it.
So time it is one that you could create
that I think is pretty nice.
Like this is one of the homegrown ones
that I do think is good is a lot of times
you want to know how long a function takes.
And one thing you could do is you could grab the time
at the start, here they're using perf counters,
which is pretty excellent.
And then at the end, grab the time, print it out.
But then you're messing with your code, right?
It'd be a lot easier to just go,
you know what, I just want to wrap a decorator
over some function and have it print out stuff.
Just usually during development or debugging
or something, not in production.
But if you're like, well, how long did this take?
So just yesterday I was fiddling with a function.
I'm like, if I change it this way, will it get any faster?
It's a little more complicated,
but maybe there's a big benefit, right?
And I put this on something like this on there
and like, yeah, it didn't make any difference.
So we'll keep them a simple bit of code in place.
- Yeah, and if it's like super fast,
you can also do things like loop it,
like add a loop thing there so that it runs like 100 times
and then do the division or something.
- That's a really good point.
And these are composable, right?
Decorators are composable.
So you could say @timeit @repeat1000.
- Oh, yeah.
- Right?
I mean, all of a sudden repeat is starting to sound useful.
They have a retry one for retrying a bunch of times.
No.
Tenacity.
Don't do that.
There's some that are really, really fantastic
with many options.
Don't bother rewriting some of those
'cause you've got things like tenacity
that has exponential back off,
limiting the number of retries,
customizing different behaviors and plans
based on exceptions.
So grab something like Tenacity.
But the idea of understanding the retries is kind of cool.
- Thanks for reminding us about Tenacity.
I forgot about that.
- Yeah, that's a good one, right?
Count Call.
If you're doing debugging or performance stuff,
you're just like,
why does it seem like this is getting called like five times?
It should be called once.
This is weird.
And so you could actually,
they introduced this Count Call decorator
that just every time a function is called,
it's now been called this many times,
which sounds silly, but are you trying to track down
like an N plus one database problem
or other weird things like that?
If you don't really know why something bizarre
is happening a ton of times, this could be kind of helpful.
- Yeah.
- Rate limited, this one sounds cool as well.
Like I only want you to call this function
so often per second.
and you can decide what to do.
In this case, it says we're gonna time.sleep.
I'm not so sure that makes a lot of sense,
but it was asynchronous.
You could await asyncIO.sleep
and it would cause no overhead on the system.
It wouldn't clog anything up.
It would just make the caller wait.
So there's some interesting variations there as well.
Keep scrolling.
And then some more built-in ones, data classes.
If you wanna have a data class, just @dataclass the class.
Brian, do you use data classes much?
- Yes, quite a bit.
- Nice.
I like my classes to be VC funded,
so I use Pydantic more often.
(laughing)
Let's see last week.
No, congratulations to the Samuel team there.
But I honestly, I typically use Pydantic a little bit more
because I'm often gonna use it with FastAPI or Beanie
or something over the wire,
but I really like the idea of data classes too.
All right, a couple more, register.
Let me know if you know about this one.
I heard about it a little while,
but I haven't ever had a chance to use it.
But the AT at exit module in Python,
it has a way to say when my program is shutting down,
even if the user like control C is out of it,
I need to make sure that I delete say some file I created
or call an API and tell it real quick,
like, you know what, we're gone.
Or I don't know, something like that, right?
You just need, there's something you gotta do
on your way out, even if it's a force exit.
- Yeah, I have as, sorry to interrupt.
I have used this.
- Okay. - Yeah.
- Yeah, when did you use it?
What do you use it for?
- Similar sort of thing.
I've got like some thing in the background
that I wanna make sure that we,
there's a little bit of cleanup
that's done before it goes away.
But I just wanted to correct this.
This says from import, from at exit import register
and then decorate with register.
I think it looks better if you just import out of the exit
and do the decorator as at exit dot register
because it's better documentation.
- I totally agree.
I totally agree.
There's a couple of things in this article
where the code is a little bit,
no, it was the other article that I did
that was a little bit, that I talked about,
it was a little bit weird, but I agree.
Keeping the namespace tells you like,
well, what the heck are you registering for, right?
I think namespaces are a good idea.
I definitely use them.
Anyway, so you can just put this decorator on a function.
And when you exit, they show an example of some loop going,
just while true, and they Control-C out of it.
It says, hey, we're cleaning up here.
Now bye.
Which is a pretty nice way to handle it,
instead of trying to catch all the use cases with exceptions
and try finalizes and so on.
All right, property.
Give your fields behaviors and validation.
Getter, setters, and so on.
Love it.
And single dispatch.
I believe we've spoken about before where you can give,
basically you do argument overloads for functions.
So you can say, here's a function
and here's the one that takes an integer
and here's the one that takes a list.
And these are separate functions
and separate implementations.
And you do that with that single dispatch decorator.
- You know, I actually always forget about this, but-
- I do too.
- I kind of glad I forget about it because I think-
- I would use it too much.
- Maybe.
I used to love function overloading
when I was doing C, C++, C# type stuff.
I would really count on it.
And I thought I would miss it in Python, and I haven't.
- Well, I noticed that some people
that convert to Python from C
will just assume that it has function overloading,
and it just doesn't work.
- That's known as function erasure.
- Function erasure.
- The last one wins, right?
We talked about that last time.
Oh no, we talked about that when we talked on Talk Python,
which maybe we'll mention at the end,
but yeah, last time we talked, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Anyway, those are the 12 that they put in the article.
Most of them are really great.
Some of them point you at things like tenacity,
which is also really good.
So that's what I got.
- Nice.
Well, I would like to talk about testing too a bit.
Let's talk about PyHamCrest.
So this topic is contributed by TXLs on the socials.
So thanks TXLs.
So PyHamCrest and the thought was like,
Brian talks about testing a lot.
So why haven't you covered this?
So what PyHamCrest is,
is a matcher object declarative rule matcher thing
that helps you with the certs and stuff like that.
Have you used this?
- I have not.
My first thought it was like some kind of menu item
on a holiday dinner, but no.
I literally only heard about this
'cause you put it in the show notes.
So it's news to me.
- Okay.
So the idea is instead of like all the assert,
so you've got a whole bunch of certain things
like assert that, assert that and equal to
and a bunch of ham crisp things that you can import.
So you can do things like instead of saying
assert the biscuit equals my biscuit.
You can say, assert that the biscuit equal to my biscuit.
So at first, so I've always thought asserts are,
like I get this for unit test, but for pytest,
what do we need it?
Because you could just use assert in pytest.
However, I'm kind of easing up on that argument
because I can see a lot of places where just really,
if you can make your assertions more readable
in some contexts, then why not?
- Sure, and I don't know about this one,
but if it's got things like go through a list
and assert everything as equal in the list, right?
- Yeah.
- Or higher order things where it would be kind of complex
to implement the test that is the thing you want to assert.
Like these three fields are equal of these three things,
right, then it becomes a little less obvious.
And if this has a really nice story, it looks like it does.
- Yep, there's a whole bunch of matchers within it.
Like for objects, it's like equal to and has length,
it has property, has properties is interesting.
So you could like assert on duck typing.
Hopefully it has these values or something.
Numbers close to greater than, less than,
of course, these asserts are fine with this,
but the logical stuff, the logical and sequences
is what I think where I probably might use it.
Things like all of or any of or anything,
or that's neat.
Like all of these things are true.
And you can combine this with or,
like all of these or all of those or something.
Sequences, it contains in any order.
That's kind of interesting.
- Nice.
- Has items, is in.
Again, these are things that are testable in Python,
raw, like just raw test, not too bad,
but if it's more readable, sure, why not?
So there's some like that are shown,
like, especially with raising error, like exceptions.
Oh, where'd I get it?
Oh, the tutorial has a bunch of cool stuff in it.
The things like assert that calling translate
with args curse word raises a language error.
Well, that's kind of neat.
- Very naughty.
assert that broken function raises exception.
Okay.
I mean, in pytest, you've got the raises thing
with pytest raises, but it is, some people have a hard,
like it's not obvious and this may be,
maybe this looks better.
This is kind of neat.
You can use assertion exceptions with async methods.
So it has a resolved item.
So you can say assert that await resolved future
results in future raising value error or something.
- Yeah, nice. That's cool.
- So, yeah.
So a lot of predefined matchers and I guess
it has some syntactic sugar things like is underscore.
So just if it sounds better to have an is in there,
you can add it.
So assert that the biscuit is equal to,
doesn't do anything, but it sounds better.
So why not, I guess.
>> If you wanted to read that English,
like insert a no op verb.
>> Yeah.
But I guess I do want to highlight this because why not?
I mean, since I'm writing a lot of test code,
I'm used to all the different ways you can check
different equivalents of values or comparisons.
So I don't know how much I would use this,
but I've seen a lot of people struggle
with how to write an assertion.
And so having some help with the library, why not?
So this is pretty neat.
- Yeah, this totally resonates with me.
I like it.
- Well, that's our six items, six, four items.
(laughing)
Do you have any extras for us this week?
- I do have a few extras.
Let me throw them in here.
First of all, it's a few weeks old.
I didn't remember to put it up here,
but Python 3.11.2 is out as well as 3.10.10
and the alpha five of 3.12.
We're getting kind of close to beta, it feels like,
for 3.12, which will be exciting
'cause then we'll get real visibility
into what's probably gonna be happening
for the next version of Python.
That's cool.
- Yeah.
I'm testing for 3.12 already with our CI builds.
Nice.
For example, with 3.11.2,
there were 192 commits since 3.11.1, 194 rather.
So that's pretty, it's pretty non-trivial right there.
And they link over to somewhere that looks,
I don't know, just, what am I supposed to learn from that?
Here's the changes from 3.11 to 3.12.
So I always go to downloads, full list of downloads.
Dun-na-na-na-na-na-na.
Scroll down to the particular version here
and go to release notes.
And there you go.
probably what they should be linking to.
And here's all the things.
There's some that are in here that are
things that you might actually care about.
Like for example, fixed race condition
while iterating over thread states in thread.local.
You might not want that in your code.
And various other things.
Yeah, bunch of, there's a,
look at all these changes here.
This is a lot.
- Yeah, nice.
- So, yeah. - Go team.
- Yeah, go team.
You might think, oh, it's just a dot plus one,
plus 0.0.1 sort of thing to it.
But now it's got some interesting changes,
as well as I haven't looked at what's happening in the others,
but maybe some of those are important enough
to pull backwards those fixes.
Also, more recent, as in eight days ago,
we've got Django 4.2 beta, beta 1.
And typically, the philosophy is once it hits beta,
The API should be stable, the features should be stable.
It's just about fixing bugs.
Doesn't always work out that way,
but that's generally the idea.
So basically, here's your concrete look at Django 4.2.
- Yeah. - If that's right.
- And 4.2 looks exciting.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So you can, you know, they've got some release nodes
and various things about what's going on.
You can go check that out.
So they got Psycho PG3, so Postgres support.
It now supports post-PsychoPG version 3.1.8 or higher.
So you can update your code to use that as a backend.
- I'm still using two, so I better know those at three.
- Now, careful, Brian.
PsychoPG 2 is likely to be deprecated
and removed at some point in the future.
- Okay.
- Yeah, comments on columns and tables.
So that's kind of neat in the database model.
So the ORM gets some of their mitigation.
- No comment on that.
Yeah, no comment, very good.
Some stuff about the so-called breach attack.
I have no idea what it seems to have to do with gzip,
so check that out.
Another one that's interesting is in-memory file storage
and custom file stores.
This is for making testing potentially faster.
So if you're gonna write some files as part of a behavior,
you can say, just write them to in-memory.
Don't have to clean them up, and they write really fast.
- Yeah, it phenomenally speeds up testing.
It's good. - Yeah, but, all right.
So there's that.
And then also, I want to give a shout out--
I'll put it like this.
I want to give a shout out to an app real quick
that people might find useful by way of a journey.
So rewriting the Talk Python apps in Flutter, which all the APIs
are Python, but we're having apps on macOS, Windows,
Linux, iOS, and Android.
That's really hard to do with Python,
so Flutter is what we're using.
And it's going along really well.
Here's a little screenshot for you, Brian,
to show you what we've got so far.
Isn't that cool?
- Yeah.
- Yes, and another, like here's the little app and stuff.
So I think I'm really happy with how it's coming together.
I think it's gonna be a better mobile app experience
for, and an existing desktop experience
for like offline mode with the Talk Python courses.
- Oh, cool.
- Yeah, so that'll be really neat.
The thing I wanna tell you about
is something I just applied to it.
This thing called ImageOptim.
And what you can do is you can just take
the top level of your project.
So I did this for, say, the Talk Python Training website.
I did this for the mobile app.
Just take the very top level project folder
and just throw it on this app.
And it'll go find all the images, all the vector
graphics, and everything, and minimize the heck out of them.
So for example, when I did that on the mobile app,
it went from 10 megs of image assets
to 8 megs of image assets, lossless.
Like, no one will know the difference other than me
that I've done it.
And it dropped 20% of the file size, which
It's not the end of the world, but given how much work it is,
it's not too bad.
- Well, the lossless part is the important bit.
So that's pretty exciting.
- Yeah, exactly.
So it'll do things like if it's a PNG and it sees
you're using a smaller color palette
than what it's actually holding.
It's like, oh, we can rewrite that in a way
that doesn't make it actually look different,
but takes up less storage.
Basically, it's a wrapper over things like Moze JPEG,
PNG Crush, Google Zopfali, I don't know.
how to save these things.
But there are a bunch of lossless image manipulation tools
and it just applies those to all of them
in a super easy way.
And this thing's open source itself.
- Cool.
- So yeah, anyway, if people have websites out there,
they could consider just like,
take your website, throw it on here,
and it'll tell you, make sure it's all checked in and get,
do this, see what it says.
It gives you a little report at the bottom,
like you saved either 10K or you saved five megs,
depending, you can decide whether to keep the changes.
- Yeah, cool.
- Yep, all right, that's all my extras.
How about you?
- I just have a couple.
Yesterday I talked with you on Python Byte,
no, on Talk Python, about pytest tips and tricks.
And I just wanted to point out that the post is available
for people to read if they want to go look through it.
And if you have comments, please, or questions,
let me know, of course.
Also in March, I think I've brought this up before,
but I'll be speaking at PyCascades.
There's a picture of me without hair.
And I did stick up a blog post on pythontest.com,
just a placeholder so that I can link the slides
and code afterwards.
So that's up.
- Awesome.
- And that's it.
- Yeah, that's gonna be a really cool talk.
I think a lot of people are interested
how you share fixtures and build them for your team
or cross project as well.
As it was really great to have you on Talk Python.
We talked a bunch of cool pytest things.
That'll be out in a few weeks for people
if they don't wanna watch the YouTube version.
- And then we'll let people know when that's available.
But yeah, absolutely.
But hopefully they're all subscribed
to Talk Python already anyway.
- I'm sure they are.
- Yeah. - They are.
How about a joke?
Are we ready?
- Yes, let's do a joke.
- Let's do it.
So this one, this is a quick and easy one.
And for people listening, no pictures even.
This one comes from Nick's craft on Twitter.
And it says, "Developers, let us describe you as a group."
Right?
Things, groups of things sometimes have weird names.
Like a group of wolves is called a pack.
A group of crows is called a murder.
We think we should call a group of developers, Brian.
- That's hilarious.
A group of developers is called a merge conflict.
(both laughing)
- Isn't that good?
- Yeah.
- It is.
The comments are pretty good.
If you scroll down here, some of them are silly.
Some are just like, yep.
Yeah, anyway, they're pretty good.
But yeah, a group of developers is called a merge conflict.
And so true it is.
You can even have a merge conflict with yourself.
Be a group of one.
- How about a group of tech CEOs with social media accounts
would be a lawsuit.
- That's right.
An SEC investigation.
That's right.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Cool.
Wow.
Fun as always.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody for showing up as always and we'll see you next time.